Sports and games is a field with bright career and interesting moments. Thus, it is good for youths who are interested in this field and want to make their solid career. People, who involved in the sports and games activities, generally become healthy and fit all through their life. It is a multi beneficial field which nourishes a person with name, fame, money and fitness. It blesses a person a sound body and a sound mind too. As we all know that good health of body and mind is essential to success in life. Unhealthy people feel weak and tired and don’t have required confidence to go ahead. So, the field of sports and games is very active as it ensures good health, confidence and money.

It plays a great role in developing human personality. It has been made compulsory and part of the education in schools in many developed countries. To help youths (both boys and girls) to practice and take part as much as possible in this field, various training centers are opened all over the country.
There are various sports and games which are played at both national and international level such as basket ball, football, tennis, cricket, volleyball, hockey, squash, badminton, table tennis, kabaddi, Polo and so many. Though, some of the sports and games are played in many countries however they are unique, particular and famous especially for one country such as kabaddi, chess, and snooker were originated in India and played with much interest. Other famous games in India are badminton, hockey, football, etc. Cricket is also played by the players at national and international level with much interest but it does not have its origin in India. All the sports and games play an important role in the physical and mental development of the children.

Playing games and sports gives various nice results with combo pack of exercise and excitement. Some of the people play it for their interest to get fit and healthy whereas some people play it to make their career in this field. Being involved in sports and games, whether to make career or only for an hour a day, improve confidence, boost personality and provide a good deal of excitement and entertainment in the life. It fills with zeal and lot of excitement to both, players and spectators due to the suspense and unexpected turns available in sports and games.

Games and sports mean a lot in people’s life whether to make a bright career or maintain the fitness level all through the life. It is multi-beneficial for the players in various dimensions of the life. If one is interested in this field, he/she can get success in every walk of life. Sports and games can be outdoor, indoor and all the gymnastic activities by the athletics. Children involved in the sports activities are seen with much improved physical and mental health as well as concentration in education. That’s why; it has been made compulsory as a part of the education in all the schools by the government.

Boys and girls both are interested equally in this field and participate actively to win competitions at national and international level as well as make their career. Boys and girls practice running, swimming, jumping, discuss throw, javelin throw, etc at home, training center or school according to their interest.

Games and sports is a very interesting field and it is organized generally in winter season in the schools and colleges as annual affairs to entertain students as well as give them a nice career track by evaluating best students in the sports. Interested students take part in their favorite indoor or outdoor games and sports such as high and long jumps, kabaddi, race, football, cricket, etc. Sports activities are organized in the colleges and schools especially to motivate and encourage students towards sports.

Sometimes inter class and inter school tournaments are organized to declare best team in football, hockey, race, cricket, tennis, cycling, kho-kho, volleyball, badminton, etc. Games and sports are best way to foster team spirit among students. It makes a participant more disciplined, humble and punctual.

Games and sports run side by side with the education in student’s life. It is an integral part of life and involved in the all over development of the person, that’s why it has been made compulsory with education in the schools and colleges for the betterment of students. Growing children must be promoted by the parents and teachers to be involved in the sports and games activities to enjoy the all around development in life. Along with the education, students must take part in the games and sports.

Now-a-days, games and sports are arising as a bright career for the youths in which many youths have not only made their career but also earned name and fame worldwide. Some of them are Saina Nehwal, Pulella Gopichand, P. V. Sindhu, Mary Kom, Ashwini Nachappa, P.T.Usha, Anju Bobby George, Milkha Singh, Sachin Tendulkar, Sania Mirza, etc. Playing indoor games improves the memory power and concentration level and outdoor games improves the physical and mental health. In order to get a sound mind in a sound body, we must involve in the sports activities regularly.